I'm pleased to find Galatians 5 with me.
Our text is verse 26, but we would first like to read Galatians 5, 16, says, but I say,
keep walking by spirit and you will carry out no fleshly desire at all, walking by spirit.
What does that mean?
What has nothing to do with how we put our feet on the floor, walking in this case is
talking about a course of life, our conduct, our behavior.
So Paul saying, if we behave by the spirit, we will carry out no fleshly desire at all.
Now he did not say we would not have fleshly desires.
We may still be battling some fleshly desire.
But he did say if we follow the lead of the spirit, we will not succumb, we will not
give into it.
He said, you will carry out no fleshly desire at all.
But now let's turn to verses 19 to 21 of Galatians 5.
There are 15 specific wrong actions or attitudes enumerated.
Let's review these sorted players of Satan.
Now the English word sorted means characterized by filth or marked by grossness, which seems
to be a good fit for Satan and his influences.
So let's read 19 to 21.
Now the works of the flesh are plainly seen, so they're that obvious.
And they are sexual immorality, uncleanness, brazen conduct, idolatry, spiritism, hostility,
life, jealousy, fits of anger, dissentions, division, sex, envy, drunkenness, wild parties,
and things like these.
15 specific, negative, offensive, dirty, inappropriate actions or attitudes that are disapproved by
our clean, pure, and holy God, Jehovah.
Now the works of the flesh, they all play for Satan's side of the issue.
It's like he has his own soccer team.
Of course, in soccer, there is usually per team, 11 on the field at any given time.
But here we have 15 issues, specifically mentioned, and they all wear the uniform of Satan.
He hand picked them.
So did you notice at the end of verse 21, generic grouping, it said, and things like these.
So there's actually more than just 15 works of the flesh.
These answers are more like a substitute player sitting on the bench, waiting for Satan
to call them onto the playing field, so that they can bring their dastardly tricks to
play against us.
Our text for today mentions one of the things like these.
So look at verse 26, it's like the works of the flesh mentioned earlier.
It says, let us not become egotistical.
That's a work of the flesh that's sitting on the bench, and Satan will try to capitalize
on it if we have that tendency.
And what is a egotistical person's behavior?
Look at the rest of verse 26.
Playing up competition with one another, and being one another.
So like a soccer team, these individual works of the flesh play off of each other.
In fact, you may have noticed in our text 26, it gave an example of this egotistical
playing off another work of the flesh, and being.
Well, what does the word egotistical mean?
Well, the study note, on the verse 26, it says, the Greek word rendered egotistical,
literally conveys the idea of empty glory, vain glory.
One lexicon defines it as having exaggerated self-conceptions, conceited, boastful, empty
glory.
So an egotistical person is nothing more than a bag of wind, empty glory.
And since we're right here in Galatians, look at chapter 6, verse 3, it describes such
a person, well, 6-3 says, if anyone thinks he's something egotistical, when he is nothing,
he's empty, he's deceiving himself.
So the egotistical person stirs up competition, trying to prove that he's better than someone
else.
He's nothing but a bag of hot air.
I looked up the word competition in an English dictionary, and this is what it said.
A common struggle for the same object, especially among individuals of relatively equal standing.
And that seems to hold true.
Let's say a ministerial servant who has a tendency to be egotistical, he doesn't stir
up competition with the elders, he usually, wittingly run, wittingly, stirs up competition
with fellow ministerial servants.
And the elders don't compete with the circuit over here, the circuit over here doesn't stir
up competition with the branch committee and so forth.
So the place to analyze if we have this tendency is among our peers.
And let's be frank about the seriousness of this.
Satan's works of the flesh team is not a soccer team playing on a field.
No, that was just an illustration of them cooperating together to beat us as we try to walk
by the spirit.
In reality, Satan's temptations, his fleshly desires and so forth, they might be better
like into, instead of a sports field, a battlefield, because Satan's at war with our Christian
personality.
And that's why in Ephesians 6, the Apostle Paul used the illustration, not of a uniform,
but of a suit of armor that Christians must maintain.
However, in our text for today, the context of Galatians 5, what else could we use to counteract
the works of the flesh, including the element, digitistical?
Well you guessed it, it's the fruities of the spirit.
As outlined in verses 22 and 23, if we could look at that, 22 and 23, on the other hand,
the fruities of the spirit is love.
And you know that one quality love pretty much counteracts every one of the works of the
flesh.
But then you add to that joy piece, that's our convention theme for 2022, patience, kindness,
goodness, faith, mildness, self-control, against such things, against such things, there
is no law, such things.
So similar to the works of the flesh, the list of these aspects of the fruities of the
spirit is not all-inclusive.
Joe's spirit can produce other qualities that become additional aspects of his Holy
Spirit.
So in our discussion thus far, we have learned that digitistical is the work of the flesh
that we should strive to avoid.
And you remember the 1st Scripture read, Galatians 5, 16, walked by spirit and you will carry
out no flesh to desire at all?
Well in March 15, 2010 issue, the watchtower had a good illustration.
It explained that it's like a farmer who's producing a crop.
He has to work hard to cultivate the soil.
Individually we need to work hard to cultivate the fruities of the spirit in our life.
But more is needed than us personally working hard to be good.
If the farmer does not have sunlight, all of his work is for naught.
The article explained that the Holy Spirit is like sunshine.
The warm ray shine on our backs as we try to avoid the works of the flesh.
The ray shine on the soil in which we toil.
The fruities of the spirit germinate and sprouts and even additional aspects to those mentioned
in Galatians 5 grow within us.
We become more and more Christ-like.
And no, we do not accept Satan's taunt to play his game.
In fact, we stay off the playing field.
And even though we're still imperfect and we may have wrong desires and tendencies,
even though that's true, we don't give in to them.
We do not carry them out, including a tendency to be egotistical.